---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/crzd-xmhobe"

date: 2013-11-20
title: 'Geek Theory - Episode #1 "The Marvel Issue"'
runtime: 5:28
runtime: 
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03/20131120+crZd-xmhobE+Geek+Theory+-+Episode+%231+%EF%BC%82The+Marvel+Issue%EF%BC%82.webm"
  - "https://web.archive.org/web/20220605191048/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=crZd-xmhobE"
# description: "a video essay on...?"

history:
  2013-11-20: First published.
  2023-12-07: Privated post-callout.

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
{% include meta-history video=page %}
<credits class="desc">
<details {% include description-version for="2013-11-20" %}>

I think Marvel has a problem on its hands, and in this video I fill you in on why I think so, and what they need to do to fix it.

</details>
</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

the marvel cinematic universe has been an incredibly interesting experiment by
disney and marvel studios it's creating new interest in the comics has almost
single-handedly turned superhero movies into hollywood's new giant cash cow and
it's expanding the cinematic universe is spilling over onto tv with agents of
shield and netflix with the recently announced string of miniseries they plan on
producing and that's great i wasn't even a big fan of marvel before the movies
started coming out and now i read multiple marvel books each month i used to
only read batman but i feel like they're squandering their potential marvel's
been doing great but they have had a few missteps nothing big enough to really
draw attention but they've had a few such as thor marvel decided on making a
thor movie because at the time he was one of the few semi-major characters they
still held the rights to they didn't know spider-man and they didn't own the
x-men in fact the only big name they held the rights to was the hulk a year or
two later of course an iron man would be one of the best known superheroes on
the planet thanks in no small part to robert dooney jr but when they started
this cinematic universe journey they didn't have a lot to pick from if they made
a thor movie it could work toward an avengers movie so they made it and it
worked out pretty well but it was no blockbuster to say the least it did well
grossing about 480 million dollars worldwide but compared to the vast majority
of superhero movies coming out at the time and since that's a pretty paltry
number the sequel thor the dark world has recently been released and is on track
to do more or less the same at the box office but it had a bigger budget captain
america actually made less than thor but it received much higher praise from
critics and its sequel the winter soldier looks like it's going to be a more
traditional hollywood action movie which could lead to better box office
performance what does marvel have coming up next guardians of the galaxy a
series that i certainly hadn't heard of before it was announced and one that
features characters including a gun-toting raccoon and a talking tree i've
spoken to quite a few hardcore marvel fans and even they're not all that excited
for it interested yes but not really excited after that we have the avengers
sequel age of ultron which will probably be amazing and gross like 2 billion
dollars and it's introducing the scarlet witch character which i'm really
excited about because that could lead to some seriously dramatic and amazing
story lines in the future go ahead and look up to scarlet witch girl has issues
but then after age of ultron we have ant-man i'd never heard of ant-man before i
read the young avengers comics and even there he was had a very small role the
biggest marvel fans i know are even worried about how that one's going to turn
out and of course then there's agents of shield which has been so lovingly
nicknamed csi marvel comic book fans don't think that there's enough marvel in
the show while casual viewers think that it's too comic booky it's improved
since the earlier episodes but the ratings have been decreasing steadily each
week it has had a full season picked up though but one can't help but wonder if
that's less because of popular demand and more because disney doesn't want to
admit that not everything from marvel studios is gold now marvel's in a pickle
because robert downey jr has said he doesn't want to do any more solo iron man
movies iron man has been by far the most successful solo series that marvel has
released the trilogy having grossed almost 2.5 billion dollars worldwide no
other marvel movie can touch iron man except spider-man which they don't
actually own the production rights to sure the avengers made more money but tony
stark was front and center in that as well so what can marvel do well iron man
is successful because people like to think they can relate to tony stark yes
he's rich and brilliant but he's got problems just like everyone else people
relate to spider-man because peter parker is an every man people relate to the
x-men because they appeal to the minority in us all the put upon the
marginalized have you tried not being a mutant can you relate to thor a literal
god but like i said marvel and disney aren't allowed to make spider-man or x-men
movies even though they would probably love to get their hands back on their
most popular and relatable characters but you better believe sony and fox are
not going to give up their grip on those franchises so what can marvel do they
need to start another franchise with a hero that people can relate to personally
i hope this turns out to be the young avengers series but that's probably just a
pipe dream and not even feasible until phase 4 at the very earliest probably
phase 5 but they really do need to introduce some characters that people can
relate to captain america and thor are fun but not really relatable there are so
many amazing characters in marvel who could easily support their own movie and
could grab the audiences like iron man has but they're not doing anything with
them as a movie fan and a superhero fan i really want marvel to succeed in this
but i fear they might be going a little too far out for mainstream audiences to
follow let me know what you think do you think marvel is squandering an
opportunity or do you think they're doing it all just right let me know in the
comments below i'll be back next week with another episode so until then like
subscribe comment and share do all that stuff and i will see you next week